# tiny-url-go
a url shortening repository written in go

## Functional Requirements

1. Short URL Generation
    - the service should be able to generate a unique shorter alias of the given URL.
2. Redirection
  - Given a short link, the service should be able to redirect the user to the original URL.
3. Custom Short Links
  - Users should be able to generate custom short links for their URLs using the service.
4. Deletion
  - Users should be able to delete a short link generated by the service, given right.
5. Update
  - Users should be able to update the original URL associated with the short one, given the proper right.
6. Expiry Time
  - There must be a default expiration time for the short links, but users should be able to set the expiration time based on their requirements.

## Non-functional Requirements

1. Availability
   - The service should be highly available, because even a fraction of the second downtime would result in URL redirection failures. Since the service's domain is in URLs, we don’t have the leverage of downtime, and our design must have fault-tolerance conditions instilled in it.
2. Scalability 
   - The service should be horizontally scalable with increasing demand.
3. Readability
   - The short links generated by the service should be easily readable, distinguishable, and typeable.
4. Latency
   - The service should perform at low latency to provide the user with a smooth experience.
5. Unpredictability
   - The short links generated by the service should be highly unpredictable because of security. It eliminates the possibility of someone guessing all the short URLs that the service has ever produced or will produce.


## Need Buildings

- Database
  - It will be needed to store the mapping of long URLs and the corresponding short URLs.
- Sequencer
  - It will provide unique IDs that will serve as a starting point for each short URL generation.
- Load balancer
  - This will ensure smooth requests distribution among available servers.
- Cache
  - This will be utilized to store the most frequent short URLs related requests.
- Rate limiter 
  - It will be used to avoid system exploitation.